src/app/work/projects/NN-Binary-Representation.mdx, before:

---
title: "In Progress - AI & Neural Network Project: Binary Representation"

summary: "Development of a neural network mdoel to learn and predict binary representations, showcasing experimentation with data encoding and neural architectures."

team:
  - name: "Geronimo Restrepo"
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/geronimo-restrepo-7154601aa/"
---

## Overview

Currently working on a neural network project that focuses on learning and predicting binary representation of numerical and textual data. The goal is to demonstrate the neural network's ability to generalize patterns in binary inputs. 

## Key Features

- **Binary Encoding**: Preprocessing data into binary format to train the neural network effectively. 
- **Custom Neural Network Architecture**: Designing layers and activation functions suitable for pattern recognition in binary data. 
- **Training & Evaluation**: Implementing training pipelines with appropriate loss functions and metrics to assess model performance. 

## Technologies Used

- **Python**: For building and testing the neural network. 
- **PyTorch**: For constructing and training the neural network model. 
- **NumPy & Pandas**: For data preprocessing and manipulation

## Challenges and Learnings

TBA

## Outcome

The project aims to provide a neural network capable of accurately predicting binary representations and serving as a foundation for further experiments with bianry data processing and representation learning.

Commit message:

Revise project focus to Suricata IDS implementation
Updated project details from a neural network focus to a custom IDS implementation using Suricata, detailing the configuration and analysis of network traffic.

src/app/work/projects/NN-Binary-Representation.mdx, after:

---
title: "Custom IDS on Linux Using Suricata"

summary: "Configured and deployed an Intrusion Detection System (IDS) using Suricata to detect and analyze malicious network activity. This project demonstrated practical skills in network traffic monitoring, alert analysis, and secure system administration using PuTTY."
images: 
  - "/images/projects/codesandbox.png"

team:
  - name: "Geronimo Restrepo"
    linkedIn: "https://www.linkedin.com/in/geronimo-restrepo-7154601aa/"
---

## Overview

This projected invovled building and configuring a Network Intrusion Detection System (IDS) using Suricata to analyze replayed network traffic downloaded from a .pcap file online using tcpreplay. Captured packets were sent through a virtual network interface allowing suricata to generate alerts based on suspicious patterns. The environment was managed through PuTTY for remote access and system control, emphasizing real-world SOC workflows such as alert investigation, log correlation, and network event interpretation. 

## Key Features

- **Implemented Suricata IDS**: Allows me to monitor network traffic and detect potential threats using rule-based detection. 
- **Analyzed Network Packets**: I was able to extract important information and familiarize myself with pcap files and figure out what it is I need to look for when analyzing packets. 
- **Correlated Alerts and Network Behavior**: I was able to identify abnormal traffic patterns and prioritize incidents. 
- **Used PuTTY for Secure SSH Access**: I learned how to remotely manage and monitor my Ubuntu Server environment. 

## Technologies Used

- **Linux - Ubuntu Server**: Operating system used for the project.  
- **Suricata**: Used to perform rule based packet inspection and alerts.  
- **PuTTY**: Used to remotely manage Linux-based tools. I also wanted to understand how to connect my VM to PuTTY because I did not think it was possible before this project. 
- **tcpreplay**: To download packet captures

## Challenges and Learnings

The biggest challenge was actually PuTTY itself. It was the first time I have ever used it and prior to this project I did not know that I could connect it to a VM. I came across challenges when trying to connect the VM to PuTTY itself. I found a temporary solution by switching between bridged adpaters and NAT in the network settings on the VM. Another challenge was building Suricata from scratch, which was what I did. I found that it was more customizable doing it that way but a lot more confusing. Going through the .yaml file on Suricata and looking for what I needed to change was a challenge but it was rewarding because the final outcome worked how I wanted it to work. 

## Outcome

The final outcome was an intrusion detection system that took in a large packet capture that I downloaded online and using rules downloaded online suricata was able to label different event by severity and other descriptions. 
Screenshots: https://imgur.com/a/30sOHeE
